I'm Steve Carano and this is ask a real
expert guys are still confused about
post-workout drinks they're not sure
whether they need a protein shake or a
carbohydrate drink let me see if I can
explain some of this because there's so
much myth and misinformation about it
the only time you're going to need a
post-workout drink is if you're training
very hard and training on a consistent
basis day after day week after week
month after month and what you're going
to need is a carbohydrate drink and
here's the reason why when you're
training whether it's weight lifting or
cardio your body is using up glycogen
then after your workout your body is
struggling to replace that glycogen and
the problem with training day after day
after day with tremendous intensity is
that the body never recovers fully or
completely so you're always running a
glycogen deficit it might not bother you
this week but it could bother you the
following week we've all had those weeks
where we feel great we feel incredible
and then the next week we feel kind of
punky we just don't have the same
strength of the same snap that's
typically because you haven't replaced
all the glycogen when you're done
working out you have a two-hour glycogen
window that means during that two hours
after a workout the muscles are much
more receptive to absorbing glycogen
therefore if you had a carbohydrate
drink two hours after your workout your
ability to replace used glycogen happens
much faster after two hours it really
doesn't make much difference so after an
intense workout and again I'm talking
about hard intense training day after
day after day the most important thing
is some type of carbohydrate drink like
let's say Gatorade if I didn't have a
Gatorade I'd have three or four ounces
of coke yes something sugary and sweet
again to replace the glycogen and to
start kickstart the glycogen replacement
process protein is not critical after a
workout you have lots of protein during
the day and then you're probably going
to eat dinner after your workout so
there is more than enough protein
available actually studies have shown
that a carbohydrate drink mixed with a
little bit of protein is really the best
recovery drink but I don't want to say
that because people are going to go oh
yeah five scoops of protein 200 more
calories and gee Steve I'm just not
losing any weight so after an intense
workout carbohydrates are probably the
best now should you do this if you're
trying to lose weight probably not
because if you're trying to lose weight
you've got extra body fat and I'm not
sure if you're training super hard balls
to the walls to the degree where you
actually need carbohydrates to help
replace glycogen if you notice that you
are not as strong and you still need to
lose body fat and you're still training
balls to the walls yes give it a try but
in general the worst thing that people
can have is a big fat protein shake
after their workout because again if
you're trying to lose weight you suck
down another three or four hundred
calories and protein you've just you
know negated all that effort of working
out and watching your diet during the
day and if you're serious about lifting
if you're a bodybuilder or you're an
endurance athlete trust me the most
important thing is a carbohydrate drink
after your workout that starts the
carbohydrate and glycogen replacement
process after that once that occurs then
you can have dinner or have a protein
shake or whatever it is remember
proteins not the magic macronutrient
people think it is we need it absolutely
we just don't need as much of it so
again this fear of oh my god I need a
protein shake in my hand 24 hours a day
seven days a week gets perpetuated and
that's why people are ready to suck down
a protein shake the moment they step out
of the gym into their car it's a little
stupid I'm Steve Carano trained smart
train hard